# Ledger

A ledger is a book or digital record containing bookkeeping entries. Ledgers
may contain detailed transaction information for one account, one type of
transaction, or—in the case of a general ledger—summarized information for all
of a company’s financial transactions over a period.

Ledgers are also known as the second book of entry.

Ledgers contain the necessary information to prepare financial statements.

A ledger is a book or digital record that stores bookkeeping entries. The
ledger shows the account’s opening balance, all debits and credits to the
account for the period, and the ending balance.

Companies can maintain ledgers for all types of balance sheet and income
statement accounts, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, sales,
and payroll. Transactions from subsidiary ledgers are periodically summarized
and transferred to the general ledger, which contains transaction data for all
accounts in the chart of accounts.

Preparing a ledger is important as it serves as a master document for all your
financial transactions. Since it reports revenue and expenses in real-time, it
can help you stay on top of your spending. The general ledger also helps you
compile a trial balance, spot unusual transactions, and create financial
statements.

## Ledger Account

A ledger account is a record of all transactions affecting a particular
account within the general ledger. Individual transactions are identified
within the ledger account with a date, transaction number, and description to
make it easier for business owners and accountants to research the reason for
the transaction.

Examples of common ledger accounts include:

Asset accounts, such as cash, prepaid expenses, accounts receivable, and
furniture and fixtures

Liability accounts, including accounts payable, accrued expenses, lines of
credit, and notes payable

Equity accounts, such as common stock, retained earnings, shareholder
distributions, and paid-in capital

Revenue accounts, including sales and service fees

Expense accounts, such as advertising expenses, utilities, rent, salaries and
wages, and supplies

Other income and expenses, such as interest, investment income, and gains or
losses from the disposal of an asset

The company’s bookkeeper records transactions throughout the year by posting
debits and credits to these accounts. The transactions result from normal
business activities such as billing customers or purchasing inventory. They
can also result from journal entries, such as recording depreciation.

## vs journal

Both the accounting journal and ledger play essential roles in the accounting
process. Bookkeepers primarily record transactions in a journal, also known as
the original book of entry.

After that, the bookkeepers can post transactions to the correct subsidiary
ledgers or the proper accounts in the general ledger. While many financial
transactions are posted in both the journal and ledger, there are significant
differences in the purpose and function of each of these accounting books.

