# Journal

In the double-entry bookkeeping method, financial transactions are initially
recorded in the journal. It’s also known as the primary book of accounting or
the book of original entry. The journal must include detailed descriptions for
every transaction.

On the other hand, the ledger is the second book of entry because it has
summarized information from the journal in the “T-account” format. It is used
to create the trial balance, which is also the source of financial statements
such as the income statement and the balance sheet

Journalizing is the process of recording transactions in a journal as journal
entries. Posting is the process of transferring the all the transactions to
the ledger.

Journal entries are recorded in chronological order, making it easy to
identify the transactions for a given business day, week, or another billing
period. By contrast, entries in a ledger might group like transactions into
specific accounts to assess the data for internal financial and accounting
purposes.

Transactions that occur frequently—such as revenues, cash receipts, purchases,
and cash payments—are typically recorded as journal entries first.

## Format

A journal format is simple. It includes the transaction date, particulars of
the transaction, folio number, debit amount, and credit amount. There’s no
need to balance journal entries.

| Date | Description | Ledger Account | Debit | Credit |
| ---- | ----------- | -------------- | ----- | ------ |

Ledger accounts almost always start out with an opening balance. For balance
sheet accounts, the opening balance is usually the closing balance from the
previous period. Income statement accounts start with an opening balance of
zero because revenues and expenses should have been closed to retained
earnings at the end of the prior period. At the end of the period, all ledger
amounts should balance. In other words, debts must equal credits.

| Date | Description | Ledger Account | Debit Amount || Date | Description | Ledger Account | Credit Amount |
| ---- | ----------- | -------------- | ------------ || ---- | ----------- | -------------- | ------------- |


Preparing a ledger is vital because it serves as a master document for all
your financial transactions. Since it reports revenue and expenses in
real-time, it can help you stay on top of your spending. The general ledger
also enables you to compile a trial balance and helps you spot unusual
transactions and create financial statements.

Using a ledger, you can maintain an accurate record of your business’s
financial transactions, generate financial reports, and monitor business
results.

But you don’t have to be intimately acquainted with journals and ledgers to
keep tabs on the financial health of your business. Using accounting software
or working with a professional bookkeeper or accountant makes it easier to
record every transaction and make sure they balance every time.

